---
layout: post
title: "Notes on TropicalMBA #320: How Do You Decide When Enough is Enough?"
date: 2016-01-24 
categories: blog
tags: featured
permalink: /tmba320/
comments: true
---

>"We get really addicted to the scoreboard of what we can do. Everyone else lives in the salaried world, where if you do really well you can get a 5% raise this year. We live in a world where if we do really well we can double our revenue."
>
>– Nathan Barry

I've been a silent fan of The Tropical MBA (formerly The Lifestyle Business Podcast), for about 5 years. I think the reason I've stuck with them so long is that with every episode, they seem to echo my own deeper thoughts and feelings, those ones that get pushed down by all the advice I hear of very impressive people. 

The two guests on [episode #320](http://www.tropicalmba.com/enough/), **Daryl Mander** and **Nathan Barry**, talk about intentionally holding back from bigger revenues. Deciding that what they have is enough, at least for now. 

They both came to a time in life where more money ≠ more happiness. 

**For Daryl**, this was due to troublesome clients. He was doing online ads, and most of his Facebook Ad projects were a pain. One year recently he was home for Christmas, and at the end he turned around and realised he'd spent the majority of the holidays locked up in his room, sorting out a difficult Facebook Ad campaign. 

It's the 80/20 thing. He cut out the clients that were causing 80% of the headache, and he didn't stop there. He also cut his team, went back to being a one-man-band as an online ad consultant. 

His hours now are 3-4 hours a day, 4 days a week. 

It's cost him quite a bit of potential money, but the reduction in stress and improvement in his mood has been well worth the price. 

**For Nathan**, who I've known about for a while, his "enough" was still a very tidy sum. He got to a point with his programming-teaching business that if he worked really hard, he could make $50,000 in one month. He did that in 2014 until April.

Then he realised he didn't have a thirst for more.

He'd already made $150,000, which was approaching triple his yearly salary when he was working a day job. 

He had some big non-work projects planned for the rest of that year. He was going to work on renovating his family home, plus he had a new kid on the way. He wanted a ton of time to pour into those areas of his life. 

##My Takeaway

I'm not close to my "enough" figure yet, so this isn't a question I need to think about now. 

My current struggle is responsiveness. I'm weird in that I should force myself to spend *more* time with my face in my phone. 

This last week I've been waking up at 5am every morning, and it's been easy for some reason. Perhaps I'm finally starting to enjoy feeling like a "hard worker", finally absorbing the advice I've heard from the likes of Gary Vaynerchuck and Grant Cardone. 

Thing is, the lesson from this episode is *arse-backwards* to the philosophies of Gary or Grant, or many other hardcore implementers like them. I need to be more like them, before I start cutting back my ambition. 

I'm now fully immersed in a sub-culture of people who might look down on someone who's taking it easy. And that's good for me right now. They might also look down on someone who stops trying to be an entrepreneur and takes a stable job instead. But as [episode #144 of Fizzle's podcast](https://fizzle.co/sparkline/5-reasons-why-i-quit-my-business-to-pursue-my-dream-job-fs144) illustrates, even a community of ballers shouldn't be given too much influence over your decision making process. 

A herd of awesome people is still a herd. [<a href="http://twitter.com/home/?status=A herd of awesome people is still a herd. via @jsmathison">Tweet this</a>]


###In a nutshell 
Peer pressure can always turn bad, no matter who the peers are. Always be questioning your motives, and striving to keep to them as true as possible to your deepest needs. 














